We do all of that and
we insert it into the database.
So if I run this program now,
just gonna do our userlist again so
I can remember some of our
wonderful names we made.
So I'll call mkpost with the first
argument which is the name.
And the additional arguments are,
The message.
So this is something that a cat would say,
I think, great.
So I think that should all
exist in our database now.
Maybe we'll make a couple more posts.
This cat also likes to
eat garbage [LAUGH].
How are you gonna spell it correctly here?
It's a cat, what do you expect?
[LAUGH] Maybe we'll add some other
posts by some other users as well.
And then we can write our lists.
So I'll just say hi, I'm pretty boring.
And doggymcdoggerton can say,
you want dog doggerson and I get confused
with them all the time also woof,
okay, fun.
All right, so now we've got some posts
into our database that should have
timestamps, and we should be able to
pull down a list of all of the feeds.
And do the kinds of things that you might
expect to normally do with a database.
All right, so I'm gonna copy our
user list file and call it postlist.
And we can start to modify it.
So there's different ways that
we might want to sort our data.
The first one we can do is just pull down
all of the posts and just print them.
So just to make sure that everything was
written correctly into our database,
I think that's a good thing to do.
So these are gonna be the primary
keys that we're gonna look at,
because they start with post.
If I run that, we get,
yep, we get some stuff.
I forgot to turn that entropy into hex,
which I forget all the time.
So we've got some nasty stuff in our dB.
Why don't I go ahead and fix them, make
a post function to do toString('hex').
Easy to mess that up.
Fortunately, now we've got
junk in our database, so
the best way to deal with that,
[LAUGH] this handy command called the rm.
All right, so now actually if I grep for
node mkpost,
we've got all of our post commands.
So why I don't I go ahead and I can
grep- v so the history commands
don't show up in there.
There we go.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
set off the first bits of that, I guess,
cleave off all of the integers.
And then I'm just gonna run that.
I think that will work.
I don't think that that will do
anything so terrible to my system.
Great, so that probably works.
Who knows.
All right, so now we can run postlist.
And yeah, so these are better keys, done.
But that was kind of fun,
anyways to do, to fix it.
All right, so
we've got our primary documents,
it looks like everything
is being stored correctly.
I can make this a little bit prettier.
So maybe we don't wanna see the garbage
around how the key's formatted.
We just want it to be maybe
if the hash and the username.
I see another problem
with our mkpost file.
It doesn't have the username in it.
I think I meant to do
that it just has the key.
So we really ought to have the name in
there, probably the timestamp as well.
But these things can also
live in our document body.
So that's a good place
to put them as well.
So there we go.
This is our good friend rm again, and
use that sweet little bash script and
that fixes it.
There we go.
So now we've got all of the data that we
need to have kind of a pretty output.
So let's go ahead and
make some pretty output.
So the row.key is gonna give us the idea
if we split it on exclamation mark.
So, go ahead and pull out some parameters.
The next thing that we might want
is we wanna know that username,
which is the row.value.name.
And then the timestamp is
gonna be the row.value.time.
And the body is gonna
be the row.value.body.
So these are the things
that are just in our data.
I guess I can say, maybe I'll do it like
RC style with brackets and the body.
And, I don't know,
some clients have a timestamp as well.
So that'll look kinda nice.
Who knows?
Whoops, you have to remember to
put all of your parentheses in.
So, cool.
Here's a way that we can display
our information that's kind of fun.
It's like RC style.
So maybe though we want to list all of
the posts now for a particular user.
Maybe we just wanna see tuxkitty or
doggerton's posts.
So we can use one of our secondary
indexes now to show that.
So, gonna make a copy of that file
postlist and we'll call it post-by-name,
post-by- author, that's more dignified.
So we're going to post-by-author.
And now if we go ahead and
open up the mkpost file,
just to look at our keys again.
So to list posts-by-author, we can use
this other key called post-dash-name.
And we can make a range
query with a greater than or
less than that's gonna pull down
everything by a particular author.
So those keys are gonna look like this.
So it's gonna be post-name.
I'm gonna save that to separate objects so
we got some more room.
So we're gonna have our
gt: 'post-name!' + name,
which we can get from
the command line arguments.
And then the lt: 'post-name!',
+ name +!
Because there's more information.
There's, I think, also the timestamp.
Yeah, at the end.
Yep, and also the IDs, so
that our keys don't clobber each other.
Because if you write over the same key,
it updates it,
like the first example we did with
the counter, it does it in place.
Okay, so that's a lot to deal with.
And I think we can preserve
our original formatting.
However, these rows are not
gonna have the body in them.
They're just gonna have this placeholder
value of 0 or an empty string or
something.
So if we wanna actually pull
down the original body,
we have to do something like db.get.
So what those posts are gonna
look like is if we know the ID,
which happens to be at the end of our key,
then we can look up the primary document.
So, In this case,
the ID is gonna be the last one.
So I think you can just slice that off,
-1.
Yeah, that probably works.
So it's called 'post!' + id.
Yeah, exclamation mark.
And we get the original document.
And now instead of row, we can use post.
So doc, doc, doc.
And now if we've done
everything correctly,
we should be able to say tuxkitty.
Whoops, I guess there's a syntax error.
There we go.
If we fix that, Right?
So it's not giving us what we want.
So why don't I go ahead and, Print out
the rows to see if we're
getting anything from there.
No, since we're not getting any rows,
let's go ahead and look at our keys again.
So here we have post-name.
This should be stuffed with name in there.
What we can do is just dump
everything from my database.
Let's just dump everything from
our database to take a look again.
Oops, and then we've got a,
Bailout before any of this stuff happens.
So I'm just gonna do an early return.
So this is just the first one, also have
to call next if we want it to keep going.
All right, so here we have things like
post-name, so that all looks good.
Maybe I just didn't spell
tuxkitty correctly.
No, that looks good as well.
Anyone sees anything, please shout
it out on the chat or in person.
It should be post-name, right?
Let's put it
>> Is it because of that trailing
exclamation though,
because there's additional stuff
after that author name, right?
>> You're right, I think.
All right, that is a good insight.
Okay, so let's just print out, and
then you have to give it something.
Yeah, that was it.
Thank you for that, very good.
All right, so here we have all of the
posts, and I'm just gonna re-enable, so
these are all of the secondary
index keys and values.
I'm just gonna re-enable
the part that does the db.get.
And then we should have our
nicely formatted data except
it's not value anymore.
Cuz it's string db.get.
And then you don't have a key value
object, you just have the value.
So there we go, cool.
So let's just quickly modify this one to
do posts-by-everyone ordered by timestamp.
And then I think that'll
be a good time to break.
And you can all play around with
this silly contrived example and
then we can do some other stuff,
all right?
[LAUGH] All right, so posts-by-author
now become posts-by-timestamp.
Posts-by-time, I like
that a little better.
So now instead of doing post-name, here
we have our original code that writes it.
So we want to do post-time.
And I'll just print out everything.
We don't have to sort it by name or
anything like that.
--, if we wanted to, though, we could pass
in additional arguments on the command
line that could slice up that time
range a little bit more closely.
But for now, I think this is good.
Just like post-name,
the ID is the last element in the time.
So we can leave the rest
of our code alone and
it should just print out everything
in the database ordered by timestamp.
There we go.
So I think if I do postlist now,
it's actually not ordered by timestamp.
So the order might be
a little bit different.
Except because I did these with
a little history, one liner,
they're all like almost the same second.
So whatever, you get the idea, so